= Release History for symphony

---

== v0.13.0 [2020-03-09] Michael Granger <ged@faeriemud.org>

Improvements:

- Remove Yajl dependency in favor of stdlib json.
- Update for Ruby 2.7

Changes:

- Requires Ruby 2.6+


== v0.12.5 [2019-07-16] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Improvements:

- Rescue timeouts when adjusting workers


== v0.12.4 [2019-07-11] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Be more paranoid about shared channels, and be defensive when using
  the counting queue.


== v0.12.3 [2019-07-11] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Re-establish AMQP connections after the task fork


== v0.12.2 [2019-07-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Rescue all runtime errors when measuring queue depth


== v0.12.1 [2019-07-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Longlived workers: recover from a closed channel error on
  the job-counting queue.


== v0.12.0 [2019-06-26] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

- Set a proctitle for all tasks, not just those that include the
  Metrics mixin.

Bugfixes:

- Fix a bunch of bugs with scaling, idle timeout, and message-
  counting.
- Clean up unused @pids variable in longlived task group


== v0.11.1 [2017-01-31] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

Housekeeping:

- Bump msgpack dependency for Ruby 2.4 support.


== v0.11.0 [2017-01-16] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

Housekeeping:

- Bump Configurability dependency.
- Migrate away from .rvmrc.


== v0.10.0 [2016-03-02] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

- Add a setting to tasks to force them to always rebind
- Invert scaling logic to handle initial load


== v0.9.2 [2015-07-07] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

Fixes:

- Ensure the work callback's block returns the work() rval, instead of
  the current time. This fixes Task acknowledgement.


== v0.9.1 [2015-06-08] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Fixes:

- Make Symphony.tasks contain just the task names.
  The Daemon will now load task classes on startup. This is so code can
  depend on Symphony without loading every configured task anytime its
  config loads.


== v0.9.0 [2015-06-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Improvements:

- Implement task work models
- Include the first backtrace frame when logging job errors

Bugfixes:

- Fix the patterns used by Symphony::Routing to match
  RabbitMQ topic-queue matching.


== v0.8.0 [2014-09-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Add route options to routing mixin
- Don't hardcode the path to the config file, letting it instead be
  set on the command line or via the environment.


== v0.7.0 [2014-05-05] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Add a 'before_fork' hook to Symphony::Task.


== v0.6.1 [2014-04-23] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Handle SIGQUIT the same as SIGINT and SIGTERM in the daemon.


== v0.6.0 [2014-04-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Set cancel-on-failover flag in the queue consumer
- Allow a task to declare its queue as persistant.
- Break out SSH tasks into their own gem
- Remove the interval expression parser; scheduling will
  be part of an separate library if we decide to release it.


== v0.5.0 [2014-04-08] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Don't set up default signal handlers for WINCH and CHLD for Tasks.
- Add an interval expression parsing library in preparation for
  Symphony scheduling.


== v0.4.0 [2014-03-28] Mahlon E. Smith <mahlon@martini.nu>

Enhancement:

Add an optional (disabled by default) timeout for the signal
handling wait_for_signals() method, for potential re-use in
alternate loop actions.


== v0.3.0 [2014-03-28] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Rewritten for AMQP and renamed to Symphony.


== v0.1.0 [2012-09-19] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Added beginnings of worker throttling.
- Updating dependencies


== v0.0.1 [2012-07-24] Michael Granger <mgranger@laika.com>

Initial release.

