= laika-groundcontrol

wiki:: http://it-trac.laika.com/wiki/Software
docs:: http://havnor.mdc.laika.com/laika-groundcontrol


== Description

GroundControl is a job queue and scheduler for LAIKA IT tasks. It can be 
used to defer processing of expensive tasks from a web application, to
run a scheduled task across many different hosts, etc.

It's composed of four major parts:

Task[rdoc-ref:LAIKA::GroundControl::Task]::
  The main unit of work. This is the class that describes the work to be
  done, and one Task is loaded and executed for each Job by a Worker.
Job[rdoc-ref:LAIKA::GroundControl::Job]::
  A request for the execution of a Task, along with any data needed to run
  it. These are added to a Queue, then fetched and removed by a Worker once
  the Task has been executed.
Queue[rdoc-ref:LAIKA::GroundControl::Queue]::
  An object class that manages queueing logic for Jobs. It handles
  adding and fetching of jobs from a PostgreSQL database, and provides
  convenience functions for job creation.
Worker[rdoc-ref:LAIKA::GroundControl::Worker]::
  An object class that encapsulates the child-process logic used by the 
  *worker daemon* (+gcworkerd+).

It also includes several executables under bin/:

gcworkerd::
  A daemon which manages startup and shutdown of one or more Workers
  running Jobs from a Queue.
gcscheduled::
  A daemon that provides scheduled injection of jobs. (*TODO*)
groundcontrol::
  A command shell which can manage, inject, schedule, and monitor job
  execution across multiple Queues. (*TODO*)


== Installation

    gem install laika-groundcontrol


== Contributing

You should check this source out via the 'laika-sdk' repo:

	$ hg clone ssh://hg@hg.laika.com/software/laika-sdk
	$ rake newb

This will check out all the sub-repositories, install any missing development
dependencies, run the tests/specs, and generate the API documentation.


== License

Copyright (c) 2012 LAIKA, Inc.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the author/s, nor the names of the project's
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
  software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
